---
layout: post
title: "Apples and Jelly Beans"
date: 2013-06-18 08:34
comments: true
categories:
---

The differences between the Apple iOS platform and the Android platform
and the users that prefer them can lead to much debate. There are just
as many similarities as there are differences between the two platforms.
Outlined below are some of the differences users should be aware of when
deciding between using an iOS device or an Android device.<!-- more -->

The App Store for iOS devices is easy to use but can sometimes be
difficult to search for something specific. Trying to purchase an app
for an iOS device from a computer is a much different experience though.
Upon selecting the purchase button for a selected app from the iTunes
website the user will be prompted to open the iTunes application which
will then download the mobile app to the computer, not the device. After
the app is downloaded to the computer, if “download new apps
automatically” is configured in the menu on the device then the app will
install on the device when it is connected to the Internet over Wi-Fi. A
majority of iOS users will install apps on the device using the app
store directly to avoid using the iTunes application.

The Google Play store is easy to navigate for not only purchasing apps
for the Androidid devices but also for purchasing music, movies, and
books. The best part about Google Play is that the experience is
duplicated when using the Google Play store from a computer. No need for
another application running on the computer to download the app then
sync to get the app onto the device. Users can sign in with a Google
account from any web browser and then purchase apps and have them pushed
directly to the Android device without doing anything extra on the
device itself. No extra steps involved.

Apple updates iOS with new features and security fixes frequently.
When an update is available all devices that are able to run that
version of the operating system are able to pull down the update. This
provides a very seamless environment for updating devices. Currently
87.5% of iOS users are running iOS 6 and only 8.7% are running iOS 5.
Android is completely different when it comes to system updates. Google
will release the latest version or update for the Android operating
system and those using Nexus devices that are purchased directly from
Google are able to update at that time.

If a device is locked into a carrier like AT&T or Verizon the
updates must come from the carrier after it has been configured
specifically for the device and carrier.  This leaves many devices way
behind others and the market is very fragmented with a wide range of
Android versions in use. Currently 48% of Android users are running
Gingerbread Android version 2.3, only 29% are running Ice Cream Sandwich
Android version 4.0 and then 10% are running the newest Jelly Bean
Android version 4.1which puts the majority of Android users five major
updates behind the latest version.

Apple has designed iOS to easysily integrate with all of the other
devices available from Apple. The iCloud service allows users to sync
not only contacts and calendars but also email, notes, reminders,
documents and even text messages across all Apple devices that support
it. This gives a very seamless experience between Apple products. Users
can start conversation with a text message on an iPhone, then continue
to text on an iPad and finally finish the conversation on a MacBook Pro.
Users can create a document using pages and save it to iCloud, then open
it on an iPad to do some more editing and finally open it on an iPhone
to check one last detail on the document.

Users can also share activities across Apple devices. A movie could be
played from an iOS device and mirrored onto the screen of an iMac or
onto a television with an Apple TV attached. Android devices use a
Google account to sync contacts, calendar, Chrome bookmarks, photos,
tasks and apps. That account can also access Google Drive, a cloud
storage solution. Some of these features can also be accessed from any
computer using a web browser by logging onto the Google web site. Unlike
the Google Play store this is not a very cohesive user experience.

In conclusion there are a lot of similarities between the two mobile
operating systems. Both platforms offer some great features and
services. Both platforms have unique advantages and disadvantages. Both
platforms have access to really great apps and games. The main
consideration for any user is which platform best meets the users needs.
